If we do a PES analysis, what factors
affect you?, because many factors
are affected.
Political factors are
very important.
Now, recently there has been a strike
in Bangladesh that concentrates a large
volume of production, because
you are obviously delayed in shipments
and as the times are adjusted
in Fast Fashion, you can get without
stock of some very relevant models
that then on the other hand
you will have to discount
if you have enough.
Political factors are very
important.
If you remember, a few years ago there
was a political crisis for some
aircraft between Russia and Turkey,
as they began to put barriers
to the import of products produced
in Turkey, which is a large
producer.
Countries like Iran, for example,
are restricting the volume you can
sell inside the country that
has not been produced in Iran,
so you have to produce a portion
there.
China, for example, requires
different chemical analyses,
which makes you have to do relatively
different processes to
sell there, because if
you can’t sell it there.
I have understood that the
adaptations of the product to
export, having to meet the different
local regulations requires
an increase in costs.
Yes, but it’s a well-used cost.
In the end, what can’t be allowed
at the industry level is that humanitarian
tragedies happen like they
have happened in the past
or that people work in awful
conditions.
And that’s why there are huge
efforts in terms of quality inspectors
of factories, although it’s a challenge
because we’re talking about huge extension
of terrain, we’re talking about
thousands of suppliers, multiplies
each supplier by n factories
and it’s very difficult for
the trace to be absolute.
It’s a cost, but it’s
a cost that benefits
us all.
Not to mention the part that
can affect in a more direct
way, such as the subject
of chemicals, in children’s clothing,
for example.
There are many lines of clothing
for children that need to be
taken care of, for example, in
the chemical part, but also in
the sewing of the buttons or
even in the shirts that can
not harm a baby who is in a certain
position for a long time.
I was told as an anecdote a shoe
manufacturer belonging to a large
group told me that almost the
shoes are pants, that almost children
can eat them.
We’re at a point where it would
be even edible, it’s an exaggeration,
isn’t it?
Well, it’s an exaggeration, but
of course what they can’t carry
are chemicals that produce
them no adverse reactions.
And this is very important because
children are children and don’t know
what they are doing many times.
And yes, they are restrictions, but
they are taken, it must be done and
the industry must continue to
work in that direction.
Political factors, of course, are
affected, we have seen.
Economic factors, I imagine that
the economic context of the different
countries affects a great deal.
The economic context affects, I would
say there is an economic part, the
debate is very broad, but it is
obvious that you have an economic
part that has to do, for example,
growths, are very different
by geographical areas.
The Asia-Pacific area at retail,
apparel and accessories level grows
approximately 9-10% per year,
while traditional Europe
is around 1-2%, this without
deducting inflation,
with which it is quite
flat.
In fact, it is very dependent
on consumption.
But then there are other concepts that
have to do more with consumption
habits.
There are studies that are done,
which some consultants do on consumption
habits, for example, a few
years ago, which still lasts,
a lot was spoken of the concept
of cocooning.
of?
Cocooning, because people were deriving
their share of wallet, the amount
of money they spent, to things
that are done at home.
In fact, the decoration of the
house was greatly improved.
Ten or twenty years ago, we didn’
t take as much of the money
as the consumer, when today it’
s much more relevant.
This part of being more at home,
the theme of video platforms
where you can be more at home
watching a series.
Interestingly, in the end, all of
us, all of the consumers,
all the companies compete to take
a significant part of the net
wage of a worker.
Something goes in food, that there is a
tendency to warm and very clandestine,
for example, another in clothing,
etc.
So cocooning is something that in
principle’t come well in fashion,
except for a rather logical
trend, which is that many pyjamas,
many clothes of this style, were
started to be sold.
There are habits that change
people.
Of course, it is the social factor,
for example, clearly, the social factor.
Another is sport.
That was going to tell you, because
I have seen that in some of the chains
there has been a lot of enhancement,
within the stores, the sports
clothing, which almost resembles these
specialized stores.
Yes, in fact, there are two cases
of a very big bet, because there
are many chains such as, for example,
H & M, which have quite relevant
sportswear, etc.
But, for example, GAP, GAP has
created a concept that is sold
fundamentally in the United
States, I think they already
have stores in America, which is
called Atleta, which is a store,
and it is also very curious, because
it is a sports store specialized
in women, which is a very nice bet,
because they have realized that
women have begun to do sports
much more in recent years, and
that they were not well served,
and they were not so well served
by traditional brands
like Nike or other perspective.
And it is a brand of its own, with a
store of its own, that is, it is not
a multinational, you don’t have a hand,
like in the case of H & M, that you would
have a man, woman, etc., accessory, linen,
etc., but it is a bet of your own.
And then there are stores that
are going very successful, the clearest
case is Lululemon, which I think
is Canadian, if I don’t remember wrong,
that is sports stores, it is also very
female, for example, work
a lot the part of yoga, but, let’
s say, quite luxurious, we talk
about quite high prices, of
a sweater of 120 euros, 80 euros,
that order of magnitude, and
have had a bestial success,
a fantastic success.
And then, let’s say that GAP, the
athlete concept is this, but a little
more low cost.
And finally, what are the technological
factors that affect them?
I imagine there is some technology
in the point of sale, in addition
to the digital channel.
The technology, then...
Here the biggest challenge is to be able
to integrate the traditional
retail part with technology, that
is, to offer what is much spoken
of omnicanality.
And that experience that is the same
on all channels is very difficult,
a lot of effort is being made
to make it so, and it’s where
all brands are investing in
a fairly relevant way.
For example, you can make an interaction
between buying something online and returning
it to a store, or buying something
online and going to pick
it up to a store.
All this is tremendously
relevant, but it can go much further.
In the technology defined in a
wider way starts from the wearables,
which now has been brake a little,
but there is something, for example,
the other day was seeing that
it has been developed, I think
it was Nike, a jacket to go sports,
to go on a bike, that can
be connected to the phone, so
that it warns you when you have
to turn in a certain direction,
you are illuminated a part
of the sleeve by which you
have to turn.
These are things that are being done,
that are very interesting and that are
at many levels of the chain.